# Challenge

Kiran has a problem. He's working on a project and doesn't know how. Let's help

# My Solution

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/_tNeyToiCsI" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<iframe src="https://codesandbox.io/embed/14w5j15kol?fontsize=14" style="width:100%; height:500px; border:0; border-radius: 4px; overflow:hidden;" sandbox="allow-modals allow-forms allow-popups allow-scripts allow-same-origin"></iframe>

[Kiran](https://twitter.com/kiran_gaurang) wants to build a "circle with arcs"
chart, but he's having trouble. He asked for help so here we are :)

![](https://github.com/Swizec/datavizAdvent/raw/master/src/content/kiran-challenge/ask-for-help.png)

I livecoded this one from the Paris airport so there's no sound in the video. I
was too shy to narrate my actions in the middle of a busy Starbucks. Maybe next
time.

Anyway, to build an arc circle like this, we can take many cues from how you
would build a piechart. Arcs are still arcs: They're round, have an inner and
outer radius, and represent a datapoint. We can layer them on top of each other
with a band scale feeding into radiuses.

Like this ðŸ‘‡

## First you need a dataset

We fake the dataset because Kiran didn't provide one.

```javascript
// 5 percentages represent our dataset
const data = d3.range(5).map(_ => ({
  name: Faker.hacker.verb(),
  percentage: 75 * Math.random(),
}));
```

5 datapoints, fake name with faker, and a random chunk out of 75%. Tried going
full 100 at first and it didn't look great at all.

## Then you need a parent component

```javascript
const CircleArcs = ({ data, maxR }) => {
  const rScale = d3
    .scaleBand()
    .paddingInner(0.4)
    .paddingOuter(1)
    .domain(d3.range(data.length))
    .range([0, maxR]);

  return (
    <g>
      <Circle cx={0} cy={0} r={maxR} />
      {data.map((d, i) => (
        <Arc d={d} r={rScale(i)} width={rScale.bandwidth()} key={i} />
      ))}
    </g>
  );
};
```

A functional component will do. Create a band scale for the radiuses. Those cut
up a given space into equal bands and let you define padding. Same scale you'd
use for a barchart to position the bars.

The band scale is ordinal so our domain has to match the number of inputs,
`d3.range` takes care of that. For our dataset that sets the domain to
`[0,1,2,3,4]`.

Scale range goes from zero to max radius.

Render a `<Circle>` which is a styled circle component, loop through the data
and render an `<Arc>` component for each entry. The arc takes data in the `d`
prop, call `rScale` to get the radius, and use `rScale.bandwidth()` to define
the width. Band scales calculate optimal widths on their own.

We can use index for keys because we know arcs will never re-order.

## The parent component needs arcs

That's what it's rendering. They look like this

```javascript
const Arc = ({ d, r, width }) => {
  const arc = d3
    .arc()
    .innerRadius(r)
    .outerRadius(r + width)
    .startAngle(0)
    .endAngle((d.percentage / 100) * (Math.PI * 2));

  return (
    <g>
      <Label y={-r} x={-10}>
        {d.name}
      </Label>
      <ArcPath d={arc()} />
    </g>
  );
};
```

A D3 arc generator defines the path shape of our arcs. Inner radius comes from
the `r` prop, outer radius is `r+width`. Unlike a traditional pie chart, every
arc starts at angle zero.

The end angle makes our arcs communicate their value. A percentage of full
circle.

Each arc also comes with a label at its start. We position those at the
beginning of the arc using the `x` and `y` props. Setting their anchor point as
`end` automatically makes them _end_ at that point.

```javascript
const ArcPath = styled.path`
  fill: white;
`;

const Label = styled.text`
  fill: white;
  text-anchor: end;
`;
```

Styled components work great for setting pretty much any SVG prop ðŸ‘Œ

And the result is a circle arc chart thing. Wonderful.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">For <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/ReactVizHoliday?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#ReactVizHoliday</a> Day 14 we solved the <a href="https://twitter.com/kiran_gaurang?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@kiran_gaurang</a> challenge: How do you build a arc circle chart thing<br/><br/>Solved live from the Paris airport because free wifi in France gets 3000kb/s upload ðŸ‘Œ<br/><br/>ðŸ‘‰ <a href="https://t.co/fKD856bWMp">https://t.co/fKD856bWMp</a> <a href="https://t.co/QwDAS7L63o">pic.twitter.com/QwDAS7L63o</a></p>&mdash; Swizec Teller (@Swizec) <a href="https://twitter.com/Swizec/status/1076448516619362304?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">December 22, 2018</a></blockquote>
<script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>